Topic:Classic Board-Games
Monopoly:Multiple players circle a board of properties, buying, building, and charging rent to the other players.  This game ends when all but one player run out of money (though landing in 'jail' is just a minor setback).
Sorry:Two to four players race a team of colored tokens around the board from *Home* to *Safe*, with moves determined by randomly drawn cards.  Tokens may only leave Home if certain cards are drawn: a one, a two, or a card with the same name as the game.
Trouble:A game where two to four players race a team of colored tokens around the board to their *Safe* zone.  Moves are determined by 'popping' a dice under a clear plastic dome in the board's centre.
Tiddly Winks:A game of fine-control in which colored plastic disks are propelled into a cup or container to score points.  Each plasic disk can only propelled by a sort of flick using another of the disks.
Parchesi:A game where players race a team of tokens around a board from Home to a Safe Zone.  In this game, two or more tokens may team up to form a 'blockade', so that no other tokens can pass or capture the blockading tokens.
Mastermind:A game in which one player creates a sequence of colored pegs, then hides it from the other player who tries to guess the sequence in 12 tries or less, recieving partial feedback about correct colors or positions for their guesses.
Chess:A complex, turn based game between two players in which each player controls 16 pieces of 8 different types that move across the board in different ways.
Chinese Checkers:On a pre-set grid of points, each player has a collection of tokens that they must move across the grid to the opposite side.  The tokens may move either to adjacent points, or by 'jumping' neighboring tokens to free points on the opposite side.
Scrabble:A word building game on a two-dimensional grid.  Words are scored by different point values on the letters, and point multipliers on different squares of the board.
Battleship:A two player naval combat game where players take turns firing at the other's hidden grid of ships.  The game ends when all of one player's ships are sunk.
Clue:A game of detection in which players have to determine the details of a murder, including Who did it, in which room, and with which murder weapon (such as rope, lead pipe, revolver).
Risk:A game played on a map of the world in which each player controls many 'armies' spread over many countries or regions.  The game ends when one player destroys all the other players' armies and controls the entire globe.
Payday:A lighthearted game about earning the maximum amount of money in a set span of time.  Players roll dice to move around a board, and earn money by selling 'Deals' to 'Buyers'.  Loans, Elections, and Daylight Savings also crop up during game play.
Connect Four:A quick strategic game in which red or black tokens are dropped into a vertical grid framework.  A player that can complete a straight line (horizontally, vertically or diagonally) wins the game.
Trivial Pursuit:A classic question and answer game in which players move pieces to different categories on a board and win small pieces of 'pie' for correct answers.  The first player or team to complete their whole pie wins.
Backgammon:A game where two opposing players move tokens around the edge of the board along a series of long triangles called 'points'.  Dice determine the moves in which the tokens may be taken or blocked by opposing tokens.  The winner is the first player to move all their tokens around and off the board.
Perfection:A Timed game of speed and perception where small plastic shapes must be fitted into matching indentations in a board.  A mechanism in the board counts off the time, and pops all the pieces off the board and out of their places when time runs out.
Mousetrap:A game in which a Rube-Goldbergesqe device for catching a plastic mouse is built as players traverse a board.  The device may be used once at the end of the game.
Mancala:A simple but surprisingly strategic game played on a board with a row containers to contain stones in front of each player.  The stones are picked up from one container and played one by one counter-clockwise around the board, and if the last stone lands in an empty container then it 'captures' the stones in the opposite container.
Jenga:A game in which a block tower is built higher using bricks removed from the bottom or middle of the tower.  The players must remove and build in turn until one player knocks the tower over, ending the game.